---
layout: post
title: "MemLabs: Lab6 Writeup"
date: 2023-11-11
tags: [Memory Forensics] 
description: The post shows the steps for finding the flags for the final challenge of MemLabs.
---

# Introduction

Last time, I posted a solution that shows how I approached the [fifth lab](https://oviche.github.io/2023/11/MemLabs5/) of [MemLabs](https://github.com/stuxnet999/MemLabs/tree/master) challenges. This post continues to show how I got the flags for the final lab of MemLabs, called **"The Reckoning"**.

# Extracting the clues from description

The following is the challenge description that contains the needed clues to solve this lab.
> **We received this memory dump from the Intelligence Bureau Department. They say this evidence might hold some secrets of the underworld gangster David Benjamin. This memory dump was taken from one of his workers whom the FBI busted earlier this week. Your job is to go through the memory dump and see if you can figure something out. FBI also says that David communicated with his workers via the internet so that might be a good place to start.**
> **Note: This challenge is composed of 1 flag split into 2 parts.**

I managed to extract the following clue:
- **FBI also says that David communicated with his workers via the internet so that might be a good place to start**, is a hint to investigate browser-related activities.

# Finding the image profile

First of all, we need to find the profile of the memory image using imageinfo plugin as in the following command.
> CommandLine 
{:.filename}
{% highlight CMD %}
$ ./vol -f MemoryDump_Lab6.raw imageinfo
{% endhighlight %}

The first suggested profile **"Win7SP1x64"** worked in my case.


